
                           Call for Papers

               SPECIAL ISSUE ON CONSTRAINT PROGRAMMING
                 FOR AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & MANAGEMENT
           (www.it.uu.se/research/group/astra/KER-ATM-CP/)

                 at The Knowledge Engineering Review
               (http://journals.cambridge.org/jid_KER)


CONSTRAINT PROGRAMMING

Constraint Programming (CP) is a powerful technology to model and
solve combinatorial (optimisation) problems, which are ubiquitous in
industry.  CP works either via systematic search based on constraint
propagation (the elimination of impossible values), or via
constraint-based local search.  CP is an ideal integration technology
for hybrid solving, including also methods from classical operations
research, such as mixed integer programming, and Boolean
satisfiability.  CP is now a mature field and has been successfully
used for tackling a wide range of real-life complex applications,
especially for short-term scheduling, personnel rostering, and
configuration problems.


AIMS & SCOPE OF THE SPECIAL ISSUE

The aim of this special issue is to collect original papers on
applying constraint programming within the areas of air traffic
control (ATC) and air traffic management (ATM).

Special issue topics include, but are not limited to:

 * airspace sectorisation
 * arrival management
 * complexity resolution
 * departure management
 * flow management
 * route network design
 * runway allocation
 * slot allocation

This special issue is a follow-up to the International Workshop on
Constraint Programming for Air Traffic Control & Management
(www.it.uu.se/research/group/astra/ATM-CT), held at the 7th
EuroControl Innovative Research Workshop & Exhibition
(http://inoworkshop.eurocontrol.fr) at the EuroControl Experimental
Centre (www.eurocontrol.int/eec) in Brétigny-sur-Orge, France on
Tuesday 2 December 2008, and where the proceedings consist only of the
slides of the presentations given.  The present call for papers is
open, and not restricted to the participants of that workshop.

Note that EuroControl (www.eurocontrol.int) is the European
Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation, with 38 member states
at present and headquarters in Brussels, Belgium.  It is the European
equivalent of other agencies, such as the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) (www.faa.gov) of the USA.


SUBMISSION PROCESS

Papers must present original work that has not been formally published
before.  Papers that expand conference papers with at least 30% extra
material are acceptable, together with an indication of where that
initial version was formally published.  We prefer shorter papers to
longer ones, for the sake of greater diversity and more thorough
reviewing.  Authors are therefore encouraged to be as concise as
possible, as well as to limit their papers to 30 pages.

To aid planning and organisation, send us an email by 1 March 2009
with a statement of intent to submit a paper, including its author
information, a tentative title and abstract, and an estimated number
of pages.

To submit a paper, written in English, send us an email by 1 May 2009
with the actual title, abstract, authors' names, affiliations, and
email addresses, as well as (a URL of) a PDF version of the paper.

All submitted papers will be thoroughly peer-reviewed according to the
standards of the usual Knowledge Engineering Review (KER)
(http://journals.cambridge.org/jid_KER) refereeing process, by at
least two CP experts and one ATC/ATM expert, where possible.  Authors
of submitted papers may be asked to review other submitted papers.
For information, KER currently has an ISI JCR impact factor of 1.312.
The editors in chief of KER reserve the right to make the final
acceptance/rejection decisions.

Accepted papers must be prepared using the KER author instructions
(http://assets.cambridge.org/KER/KER_ifc.pdf).


IMPORTANT DATES

 * Letter of intent   1 March 2009
 * Submission         1 May 2009
 * Notification       1 October 2009
 * Camera-ready copy  1 December 2009
 * Publication        2010?


GUEST EDITORS

 * Pierre Flener
   Uppsala University, Sweden
   (http://user.it.uu.se/~pierref)
 * Justin Pearson
   Uppsala University, Sweden
   (http://user.it.uu.se/~justin)
 * Marc Bourgois  
   EuroControl Experimental Centre, Brétigny-sur-Orge, France
   (www.eurocontrol.int/eec/public/standard_page/ORG_Innovative_Studies.html)
